_ first multicellular organism to have its genome completely sequenced (1998, completed by 2002).
_ sequenced using the "hierarchical" or clone-by-clone approach (as opposed to whole genome shotgun)
_ 100 Mb (100 megabases, 100 million base pairs)
_ gene density: 1 gene/5kb.
_ introns are 26%
_ 6 chromosomes (named I, II, II, IV, V and X) and a mitochondrion.
mitochondrion (plural mitochondria): membrane-enclosed organelle found in most eukaryotic cells; sometimes described as "cellular power plants" because they generate most of the cell's adenosine triphosphate (ATP). In addition, they are involved in signaling, cellular differentiation, cell death, cell cycle and cell growth.
_ 20,470 protein-coding genes.
_ 16,000 RNA genes, transcribed into non-coding RNA.
non-coding RNA (ncRNA, functional RNA fRNA): RNA molecule that is not translated into a protein. Variety of functions within the cell.

deficiency (gene deletion or deletion mutation, sign: Δ): mutation (genetic aberration) in which a part of a chromosome is missing.

Nonsense-mediated decay (NMD): mRNA surveillance that detects nonsense mutations and prevent the expression of erroneous proteins. Following transcription, precursor mRNA undergoes an assemblage of ribonucleoprotein (RNP) components followed by regulatory pre-mRNA processing. Large average intron size in eukaryotic cells greatly increases the probability that aberrant mRNA splicing will result in the presence of a nonsense (stop) codon (UAA, UAG, UGA) somewhere within the open reading frame.

allele: variant form of a gene. Two classification systems:
_Recessive/Dominant systems: 
    a recessive allele must be homozygous in order for the phenotype to be observed; weakness: an allele’s behavior depends on which other alleles are present
_Morphy
    Amorph (null) allele: deletion of enough of the gene so as to render it functionless.
    Hypomorph: increased gene function; normal protein product, but less of it. 
    Hypermorph: decreased gene function.
    Neomorph: new gene function; often caused by the fusion of two existing genes, creating a hybrid protein product.
    Antimorph: inhibits or interferes with the gene function of another allele (causing it to produce less gene product).
    
    
